[Music]
from the moment they leave the den black
bears can climb but when you're tiny
nothing is as easy as it looks one major
challenge is working out which trees are
safe to scamper up some are better than
others red Pines are big and sturdy they
look like the perfect choice but with
slippery flaky bark they're dangerous
going for small Cubs Cedars are better
the bark is good purchase for small
claws
[Music]
but the clear favorite is the white pine
it has strong thick bark perfect for
gripping onto and there are plenty of
large branches to use as a climbing
frame of course it doesn't matter what
kind of tree it is if it's far too small
[Music]
or if it's dead and even on the big
trees the tough bits getting down
[Music]
the young female Yosh one is ready they
have to try mating her straight away the
best candidate is pinpin he's brought to
the nursery and placed in an adjoining
pen to help things along one of the vets
uses a stem of bamboo to touch the
glands under Yosh ones tail
then it's held for pimping to sniff in
the hope you'll find her scent arousing
but he is more interested in the bamboo
itself it's going to be a long session
if the pandas are not attracted sexually
to one another they will fight so the
vets wait until interest picks up before
opening the dividing gate
[Music]
for young-ja chuan
this isn't just her first opportunity to
mate it's the first time she has even
been close to another adult panda
neither of them seem to have any idea of
how to go about things
most captive born pandas seem to have
lost the knowledge of how to get in the
right position and the position is
crucial because of the male's
disproportionately short penis even when
things are going well
mating can take many camps and things
aren't going well
[Music]
they take time out pinpin this
frustration is beginning to show
[Music]
after a bite to eat they try again
this time both pandas seem more excited
pinpin hangs on to Yosh wands neck in an
effort to hold her in place
a bit of aggression is normal but after
repeated attempts they're both tired and
there is a risk of a serious fight
[Music]
frustration and confusion are not a
winning combination mating is called off
the Arctic millions of square kilometers
of empty ice polar bears are normally
solitary you might think they're just
finding a partner in this desolate
landscape would be the challenge but
they have an excellent sense of smell
and can detect another bear from over
the horizon
[Music]
male bears can spend weeks tracking the
scent of a female who's ready to mate
they sniff closely to size each other up
she'll raise her Cubs alone devoting
herself to them for two even three years
it's a huge commitment of time and
effort so it's vital to pick a male who
will provide strong and healthy genes
for her offspring it looks as though
she's going to put this potential suitor
through his paces she needs him up and
down the slopes it's as if she's testing
his fitness they start to play
[Music]
courtship is one of the few times that
adult animals play together
[Music]
[Applause]
this slope is rather steep for the
heavier male
[Music]
it's no good he can't quite manage it
but she seems to have decided that he
might be the one was he seems to have
lost interest
it's her turn to do the chasing and
she's got a few tricks up her sleeve
[Music]
that was enough to entice him up again
this morning I want to take a closer
look at baby Mira to discover how much
he's developed in the time of being away
but the first gorilla to catch my eye
isn't the baby it's his dad
an incredible thank chairman ochre
weighs more than three times my weight
and he's sitting on the branch there is
no thick up in my heart these governors
have a bigger territorial range than
their mountain gorilla cousins they also
spend more time in the trees which means
their range extends upwards as well as I
works in forests like this you know
they're just constantly searching for
food in fact they climb trees so
frequently because assure that a lot of
their food is right up there
however treetops dining doesn't always
go to plan
[Music]